// p:
7

// y:
An. 1681

// pt:
And Account of the Moskito Indians.

I persuaded them to run into the River of Congo,
which is a large River, about three leagues from
the Islands where we lay; which with a Southerly
Wind we could have done: and when we were got
so high as the Tide flows, then we might have
landed. But all the Arguments I could use were
not of force sufficient to convince them that there
was a large River so near us; but they would land
somewhere, they neither did know how, where,
nor when.

When we had rowed and towed against the
Wind all night, we just got about Cape St. Lorenzo
in the morning; and sailed about 4 miles farther
to the Westward, and run into a small Creek with-
in two Keys, or little Islands, and rowed up to the
head of the Creek, being about a mile up, and
there we landed, May 1. 1681.

// img: 
/img/pm/7/a2.png
50
Map:
Cape Lorenzo and landing site.

// img: 
/img/pm/7/b2.jpg
100
Map:
The famous map made by Herman Moll for Dampier's book. 
Bottom right shows Gulf of St Michael and Cape St Lorenzo. 
This is the same map showed in this book but later colored by collector.

We got our all our Provision and Cloaths, and
then sunk our Vessel.

While we were landing, and fixing our Snap-
sacks to march, our Moskito Indians struck a plenti-
ful dish of Fish, which we immediately drest, and
therewith satisfy d our hunger.

Having made mention of the Moskito Indians, it
may not be amiss to conclude this Chapter with a
short account of them. They are tall, well made,
raw-boned, lusty, strong, and nimble of foot;
long-visag d, lank black hair, look stern, hard-fa-
vour’d, and of a dark Copper-colour Complexion.
They are but a small Nation or Family, and not
100 men of them in number, inhabiting on the
Main, on the North side, near Cape Gratia Dios;
between Cape Honduras and Nicaragua. They are
very ingenious at throwing the Lance, Fisgig, Har-
poon, or any manner of Dart, being bred to it from
their Infancy; for the Children imitating their Pa-
rents, never go abroad without a Lance in their
hands, which they throw at any object, till use hath
made

