// p:
9

// y:
An. 1681

// pt:
And Account of the Moskito Indians.

or superstitious Observations among them, being
ready to imitate us in whatsoever they saw us do at
any time. Only they seem to fear the Devil, whom
they call Wallefaw; and they say, he often appears
to some among them, whom our men commonly
call their Priests, when they desire to speak with
him on urgent businefs; but the rest know not any
thing of him, nor how he appears, otherwise than
as these Priests tell them. Yet they all say they
must not anger him, for then he will beat them,
and that sometimes he carries away these their
Priests. Thus much I have heard from some of
them who speak good English.

They marry but one Wife, with whom they live
till death separates them. At their first coming to-
gether, the man makes a very small Plantation, for
there is Land enough, and they may choose what
spot they please. They delight to settle near the
Sea, or by some River, for the sake of striking Fish,
their beloved employment.

Far within Land there are other Indians, with
whom they are always at War. After the man
hath cleared a spot of Land, and hath Planted it,
he seldom minds it afterward, but leaves the ma-
naging of it to his Wife, and he goes out a striking:
Sometimes he seeks only for Fish, at other times
for Turtle, or Manatee, and whatever he gets he
brings home to his Wife, and never stirs out to
seek for more till it is all eaten. When hunger
begins to bite, he either takes his Canoa and seeks
for more game at Sea, or walks out into the Woods;
and hunts about for Pecary, Warree, each a sort
of Wild Hogs, or Deer; and seldom returns empty
handed, nor seeks for any more so long as any of
it lasts. Their Plantations are so small, that they
cannot subsist with what they produce: for their
largest Plantations have not above 20 or 30 Plan-
tain-Trees, a bed of Yames and Potatoes, a bush
of

// img: 
/img/pm/9/a2.jpg
100
Pecary vs Warree. 
Most distinct difference is white collar vs white lips, 
there are many other differences not listed.

