// p:
18

// y:
An. 1681.

// pt:
A Journey over the Isthmus of America.

again, and brought with him an old Indian, to
whom he deliver'd up his charge; and we gave him
a Hatchet and dismist him, and entered our selves
under the conduct of our new Guide: who imme-
diately led us away, and crost another River, and
enter'd into a large Valley of the fattest Land I did
ever take notice of; the Trees were not very thick,
but the largest that I saw in all my travels: We saw
great tracks which were made by the Pecaries, but
saw none of them. We march'd in this pleasant Coun-
try till 3 a clock in the afternoon, in all about 4
miles, and then arrived at the old mans Country-
house, which was only a habitation for Hunting:
there was a small Plantain-walk, some Yams and
Potatoes. Here we took up our quarters for this
day, and refreshed our selves with such food as the
place afforded, and dryed our Cloaths and Ammu-
nition. At this place our Indian provided to leave
us, for now we thought our selves past danger.
This was he that was perswaded to stay at the last
house we came from, to marry the young mans
Sister ; and we dismiss'd him according to our pro-
mise.

// w:
provided: agreed, having agreed that the indian would leave us at this place

// img: 
/img/pm/18/a2.jpg
100
Got a new guide; saw the fattest valley; saw pecary tracks but no pecary; fulfilled a promise to a spanish indian.

The ninth day the old man conducted us towards
his own habitation. We marched about 5 miles in
this Valley; and then ascended a Hill, and travel-
led about 5 miles farther over two or three small
Hills, before we came to any settlement. Half a
mile before we came to the Plantations we light of
a path, which carried us to the Indians habitations. We
saw many wooden Crosses erected in the way, which
created some jealousie in us that here were fome
Spaniards : Therefore we new primed all our Guns,
and provided our selves for an Enemy; but coming
into the Town found none but Indians, who were
all get together in a large house to receive us: for
the old man had a little boy with him that he sent
before.
They

