// p:
2

// y:
An. 1681

// pt:
The Author’s Return out of the South Seas,

always bear Arms amongst the Privateers, and are
much valued by them for striking Fish, and Turtle
or Tortoise, and Manatee or Sea Cow; and 5
Slaves taken in the South Seas, who fell to our
share.

The Craft which carried us was a Lanch, or Long
Boat, one Canoa, and another Canoa which had
been sawn asunder in the middle, in order to have
made Bumkins, or Vessels for carrying water, if we
had not separated from our Ship. This we joyned to-
gether again and made it tight; providing Sails to
help us along: And for 3 days before we parted, we
sifted so much Flower as we could well carry, and
rubb’d up 20 or 30 pound of Chocolate with Sugar
to sweeten it; these things and a Kettle the Slaves
carried also on their backs after we landed. And
because there were some who designed to go with
us that we knew were not well able to march, we
gave out, that if any man faultred in the Journey
over Land he must expect to be shot to death; for
we knew that the Spaniards would soon be after us,
and one man falling into their hands might be the
ruin of us all, by giving an account of our strength
and condition: yet this would not deter them from
going with us. We had but little Wind when we
parted from the Ship; but before 12 a Clock the
Sea-breeze came in strong, which was like to founder
us before we got in with the shore; for our security
therefore, we cut up an old dry Hide that we
brought with us, and barricadoed the Lanch all
round with it to keep the water out. About 10 a
clock at night we got in about 7 leagues to wind-
ward of Cape Passao under the line, and then it
proved calm; and we lay and drove all night, be-
ing fatigued the preceeding day. The 18th day
we had little wind till the afternoon; and then we
made sail, standing along the shore to the North-
ward, having the wind at S.S.W. and fair weather.
At

// img: 
/img/pm/2/depart2.jpg
100
AI gen scenes:
1: departure with 3 small vessels;
2: preparation before departure;
3: reluctantly taken weak comrades;
4: took a new bark 2nd night,
   but they also kept their canoes for later use 
   as only canoes can go up the river.
