// p:
3

// y:
An.1681

// pt:
And Account of the Moskito Indians.

At 7 a clock we came a brest of Cape Passao, and
found a small Bark at an Anchor in a small Bay to
Leeward of the Cape, which we took, our own Boats
being too small to transport us. We took her just
under the Equinoctial Line, she was not only a help
to us, but in taking her we were safe from being
descried: We did not design to have meddled with
any when we parted with our Consorts, nor to have
seen any if we could have helped it. The Bark came
from Gallio laden with Timber, and was bound for
Guiaquill.

The 19th day in the morning we came to an an-
chor about 12 leagues to the Southward of Cape St.
Francisco, to put our new Bark into a better trim. In
3 or 4 hours time we finished our business, and came
to sail again, and steered along the Coast with the
Wind at S. S. W. intending to touch at Gorgonia.

Being to the Northward of Cape St. Francisco we
met with very wet weather; but the Wind conti-
nuing we arrived at Gorgonia the 24th day in the
morning, before it was light: we were afraid to
approach it in the day time, for fear the Spaniards
should lye there for us, it being the place where we
careened lately, and where they might expect us.

// img: 
/img/pm/3/touch2.jpg 
100
AI gen scenes:
1: anchor and trim new bark 60 kms south of cape francisco; 
2: hugging the coast with ssw wind aiming for gorgonia;
3: north of cape francisco wet weather; 
4: touching and expecting the revengeful spaniards.

When we came ashore we found the Spaniards had
been there to seek after us, by a House they had
built, which would entertain 100 Men, and a great
Cross before the Door. This was token enough
that the Spaniards did expect us this way again;
therefore we examined our Prisoners if they knew
any thing of it, who confessed they had heard of a
Pereago (or large Canoa) that rowed with 14
Oars, which was kept in a River on the Main, and
once in 2 or 3 days came over to Gorgonia purposely
to fee for us; and that having discovered us, she
was to make all speed to Panama with the news;
where they had 3 Ships ready to send after us.
We
