// p:
38

// y:
An.1681

// pt:
Savages of Boca-toro.

their Rigging of it. So much by way of Digression.

When we had cleaned our Tartan we sailed from
hence, bound for Boca-toro, which is an opening
between two Ilands about 10 Deg. 10 Min. North
Lat. between the Rivers of Veragne and Chagre.
Here we met with Captain Yanky, who told us that
there had been a Fleet of Spanish Armadilloes to seek
us : that Captain Tristian having fallen to Leeward,
was coming to Boca-toro, and fell in amongst them,
supposing them to be our Fleet: that they fired and cha-
ced him, but he Rowed and Towed, and they supposed
he got away : that Captain Pain was likewise chaced
by them and Captain Williams ; and that they had
not seen them since that they lay within the Islands :
that the Spaniards never came in to him ; and that
Captain Coxon was in at the Careening place.

This Boca-toro is a place that the Privateers use to
resort to, as much as any place on all the Coast, be-
cause here is plenty of green Tortoise, and a good
Careening place. The Indians here have no com-
merce with the Spaniards ; but are very barbarous,
and will not be dealt with. They have destroyed
many Privateers, as they did not long after this some
of Captain Pain s men ; who having built a Tent
ashore to put his goods in while he Careened his
Ship, and some men lying there with their arms,
in the night the Indians crept softly into the Tent,
and cut off the Heads of 3 or 4 men, and made
their escape ; nor was this the first time they had
served the Privateers so. There grow on this Coast
Vinelloes in great quantity, with which Chocolate is
perfumed. These I shall describe elsewhere.

// img: 
/img/pm/38/a2.jpg
100
Boca-toro is visited by pirates as much as any place in the Caribbeans,
with plenty of food, great harbor to careen ships,
but the indians do not just hate the Spaniards,
even the English can't trade/deal with them.

Our Fleet being thus scattered, there were now
no hopes of getting together again ; therefore every
one did what they thought most conducing to ob-
tain their ends. Captain Wright, with whom I now
was, was resolv'd to cruise on the Coast of Carta-
gene ; and it being now almost the Westerly wind
season,

