// p:
99

// pt:
Cruifings.

// y:
An. 1684

that we took the day before came from Guanchaquo,
all three laden with Flower; bound for Panama.
Two of them were laden as deep as they could
fwim; the other was not above half laden; but was
ordered by the Vice-Roy of Lima to fail with the
other two, or elfe fhe fhould not fail till we were
gone out of the Seas: for he hoped they might
efcape us by fetting out early. In the biggeft Ship
was a Letter to the Prefident of Panama from the
Vice-Roy of Lima; affuring him, that there were
Enemies come into that Sea: for which reafon he
had difpatched thefe three Ships with Flower, that
they might not want; (for Panama is fupplied from
Peru;) and defired him to be frugal of it, for he
knew not when he fhould fend more. In this Ship
were likewife 7 or 8 Tuns of Marmalate of Quinces;
and a ftately Mule fent to the Prefident, and a very
large Image of the Virgin Mary in Wood, Carved and
Painted to adorn a new Church at Panama, and fent
from Lima by the Vice-Roy; for this great Ship came
from thence not long before. She brought alfo from
Lima 800000 pieces of Eight to carry with her to Pa-
nama: but while fhe lay at Guanchaquo, taking in her la-
ding of Flower, the Merchants hearing of Capt. Swan's
being at Baldivia, ordered the Money afhore again.
Thefe Prifoners likewife informed us that the Gen-
tlemen (Inhabitants of Truxillo) were building a
Fort at Guanchaco (which is the Sea Port for Truxillo)
clofe by the Sea; purpofely to hinder the defigns of
any that fhould attempt to land there. Upon this
news we altered our former refolutions, and refol-
ved to go with our three Prizes to the Gallapago's:
which are a great many large Ilands; lying fome
under the Equator, others on each fide of it. I fhall
here omit the defcription of Truxillo; becaufe in my
Appendix at the latter end of the Book, I intend
to give a general Relation of moft of the Towns of
note on this Coaft, from Baldivia to Panama; and
from thence towards California.   
[?]