// p:
31

// y:
An.1681

// pt:
The Corn Islands

him we would no longer remain with Captain Ar-
chembo, but would go ashore there, and build Ca-
noas to transport our selves down to the Moskitoes,
if he would not entertain us ; for Privateers are not
obliged to any Ship, but free to go ashore where
they please, or to go into any other Ship that will
entertain them, only paying for their Provision.

When Captain Wright saw our resolutions, he
agreed with us on condition we should be under his
command, as one Ships Company, to which we una-
nimously consented.

We staid here about 10 days, to see if any more
of our Fleet would come to us ; but there came no
more of us to the Iland but three, viz. Captain
Wright , Captain Archembo , and Captain Tucker.
Therefore we concluded the rest were bore away
either for Bocca-toro, or Bluefield's River on the Main ;
and we designed to seek them. We had fine wea-
ther while we lay here, only some Tornadoes, or
Thunder-showers: But in this Isle of St. Andreas
there being neither Fish, Fowl, nor Deer, and it
being therefore but an ordinary place for us, who
had but little Provision, we sailed from hence again
in quest of our scattered Fleet, directing our course
for some Ilands lying near the Main, called by the
Privateers the Corn-Islands ; being in hopes to get
Corn there. These Ilands I take to be the same
which are generally called in the Maps the Pearl
Islands, lying about the Lat. of 12 D. 10 M. North.
Here we arrived the next day, and went ashore on
one of them, but found none of the Inhabitants;
for here are but a few, poor, naked Indians that live
here ; who have been so often plundered by the
Privateers that they have but little Provision ; and
when they see a Sail they hide themselves ; other-
wise Ships that come here would take them, and
make Slaves of them ; and I have seen some of
them that have been Slaves. They are people of a
mean

// img: 
/img/pm/31/a2.png
50
Map: 
Corn/Pearl Islands, 
Bluefield's River, 
Bocca-toro

