// p:
103

// y:
An. 1684

// pt:
Sea-Tortoise, and their Kinds.   

Necks and little Heads. There are some green Snakes
on these Islands, but no other Land Animal that I
did ever see. There are great plenty of Turtle-
Doves so tame, that a Man may kill 5 or 6 dozen in
a forenoon with a Stick. They are somewhat less than
a Pigeon, and are very good Meat and commonly fat.   

There are good wide Channels between these
Islands fit for Ships to pass; and in some places shoal
Water, where there grows plenty of Turtle-grass;
therefore these Islands are plentifully stored with
Sea-Turtle of that sort which is called the Green-
Turtle: I have hitherto deferred the Description of
these Creatures, therefore I shall give it here. There
are 4 sorts of Sea-turtle, viz. the Trunk-turtle, the Log-
gerhead, the Hawksbill, and the Green Turtle. The
Trunk-turtle is commonly bigger than the other,
their backs are higher and rounder, and their flesh
rank, and not wholsome. The Loggerhead is so called,
because it hath a great Head, much bigger than the
other sorts; their flesh is likewise very rank, and sel-
dom eaten but in case of necessity; they feed on
Moss that grows about Rocks. The Hawksbill Tur-
tle is the least kind; they are so called because their
mouths are long and small, somewhat resembling
the Bill of a Hawk: On the backs of these Hawks-
bill Turtle grows that Shell which is so much esteem'd
for making Cabinets, Combs, and other things.
The largest of them may have 3 pound and an half
of Shell; I have taken some that have had 3 pound
10 ounces; but they commonly have a pound and
half, or two pound; some not so much; these are
but ordinary food, but generally sweeter than the
Loggerhead: yet these Hawksbills in some places
are unwholsome, causing them that eat them to
purge and vomit excessivly, especially those be-
tween the Samboloes and Portabel. We meet with
other Fish in the West Indies, of the same malignant
nature; but I shall describe them in the Appendix.
These Hawksbill Turtles are better or worse accord-
ing   

      

