// p:
16

// y:
An. 1681.

// pt:
A Journey over the Isthmus of America.

// img: 
/img/pm/16/a2.jpg
100
Showing how the experienced Dampier preserves his journal.

cept those two who were behind: Foreseeing a
necessity of wading through Rivers frequently in our
Land-march, I took care before I left the Ship,
to provide my self a large Joint of Bambo, which
I stopt at both ends, closing it with Wax, so as to
keep out any Water. In this I preserved my Jour-
nal and other Writings from being wet, tho I was
often forced to swim. When we were over this
River, we sat down to wait the coming of our
Conforts who were left behind, and in half an
hour they came. But the River by that time was
so high, that they could not get over it, neither
could we help them over, but bid them be of good
comfort, and stay till the River did fall: But we
marched 2 mile farther by the side of the River,
and there built our Hutts, having gone this day 6
miles. We had scarce finished our Hutts before
the River rose much higher, and overflowing the
Banks, obliged us to remove into higher ground:
But the next night came on before we could build
more Hutts, so we lay straggling in the Woods,
some under one Tree, some under another, as we
could find conveniency, which might have been in-
different comfortable if the weather had been fair;
but the greatest part of the night we had extraor-
dinary hard Rain, with much lightening and terri-
ble claps of Thunder. These hardships and incon-
veniences made us all careless, and there was no
Watch kept, (tho I believe no body did sleep :) So
our slaves taking opportunity, went away in the
night; all but one, who was hid in some hole
and knew nothing of their design, or else fell asleep.
Those that went away carried with them, our
Chyrurgeons Gun and all his Money.

// img: 
/img/pm/16/b2.jpg
100
Wait for comrades; built huts flooded by rising river; slept under trees in hard rain, much lightning, and terrible thunder; slaves escaped with surgeon's gun and money.

The next morning being the 8th day, we went
to the Rivers side, and found it much fallen ; and
here our Guide would have us ford it again, which
being deep, and the current running swift we could
not.

