// p:
17

// y:
An. 1681

// pt:
A Journey over the Isthmus of America.

not. Then we contrived to swim over; those
that could not swim, we were resolved to help o-
ver as well as we could: But this was not so seiza-
ble: for we should not be able to get all our things
over. At length we concluded to send one man
over with a Line, who should hale over all our
things first, and then get the men over. This be-
ing agreed on, one George Gayny took the end of a
Line, and made it fast about his Neck, and left the
other end ashore, and one man stood by the Line,
to clear it away to him. But when Gayny was in
the midst of the water, the Line in drawing after
him chanc'd to kink, or grow entangled; and he
that stood by to clear it away, stopt the Line, which
turned Gayny on his back, and he that had the Line
in his hand threw it all into the River after him,
thinking he might recover himself; but the stream
running very swift, and the man having three hun-
dred Dollars at his back, was carried down, and
never seen more by us. Those two men whom
we left behind the day before, told us afterwards
that they found him lying dead in a Creek, where
the Eddy had driven him ashore, and the Money
on his back ; but they meddled not with any of it;
being only in care how to work their way through
a wild unknown Country. This put a period to
that contrivance. This was the fourth man that
we lost in this Land-Journey; for those two men
that we left the day before did not come to us till
we were in the North Seas, so we yielded them also
for lost. Being frustrated of getting over the River
this way, we lookt about for a Tree to fell across
the River. At length we found one, which we
cut down, and it reach'd clear over: on this we
passed to the other side, where we found a small
Plantain-walk, which we soon ransackt.

// img:
/img/pm/17/a2.jpg
100
Money 2 heavy 2 carry - said the 2 men.

While we were busie getting Plantains our Guide
was gone, but in less than two hours came to us
again,

