// p:
28

// y:
An. 1681

// pt:
Cruising on the West-India Coast.

the major part are not Copper-colour'd, as Mulattoes,
Mustesoes, or Indians? whether rich, and what their
riches do consist in? and what their chiefest manu-
factures? If fortified, how many great Guns, and
what number of small Arms? Whether it is possible
to come undecried on them? How many Look-outs
or Centinels? for such the Spaniards always keep;
and how the Look-outs are placed? Whether possible
to avoid the Look-outs, or take them? If any River
or Creek comes near it, or where the best Landing?
with innumerable other such questions, which their
curiosities lead them to demand. And if they have
had any former discourse of such places from other
Prisoners, they compare one with the other; then
examine again, and enquire if he or any of them,
are capable to be Guides to conduct a party of men
thither: if not, where and how any Prisoner may
be taken that may do it; and from thence they af-
terwards lay their Schemes to prosecute whatever
design they take in hand.

It was 7 or 8 days after before any resolution was
taken, yet consultations were held every day. The
French seemed very forward to go to any Town that
the English could or would propose, because the Go-
vernour of Petit-Guavos (from whom the Privateers
take Commissions) had recommended a Gentleman
lately come from France to be General of the Expe-
dition; and sent word by Captain Tucker, with
whom this Gentleman came, that they should, if
possible, make an attempt on some Town before he
return'd again. The English, when they were in
company with the French, seem'd to approve of
what the French said, but never look'd on that Gene-
ral to be fit for the service in hand.

// img: 
/img/pm/28/a2.jpg
100
Privateers are essentially pirates with letters of marque,
which in this case gotten from the French governor;
their decision making is very democratic and sound,
drawing information from every quarter;
privateers do not like formal command,
let alone someone an unknown quantity;
French have to play eager, and English also play along.

At length it was concluded to go to a Town, the
name of which I have forgot; it lieth a great way
in the Country, but not such a tedious march as it
would be from hence to Panama. Our way to it
lay

